-
diaphragm.jpg
The diaphragm is a muscle under the lungs in charge of
helping you inhale and exhale. When the diaphragm contracts and
 flattens out, the volume inside your lungs increases, lowering
 the air pressure inside. This allows air to go in and you to inhale.
 When the the diaphragm relaxes again, it curves back into its original
 shape, decreasing the volume in the lungs and increasing the air pressure,
 pushing the air out and allowing you to exhale.
-
heart.jpg
The heart is a muscle in between the lungs. It contains four chambers that
 work to pump blood to the body. The four chambers are the right atrium,
 right ventricle, left atrium, and left ventricle.
-
heart.jpg
The path of blood starts from the superior and inferior vena cavas, bringing
 deoxygenated blood from the body to the heart. It proceeds through the right
 atrium and ventricle, then goes through the pulmonary artery to the lungs,
 which oxygenates the blood, bringing it back to the heart through the pulmonary
 vein. The blood goes through the left atrium and ventricle to the aorta, which
 distributes the blood to the rest of the body.
-
Small.jpg
The small intestine digests two ways, mechanically and chemically. It
 mechanically digests through a process called peristalsis, wavelike
 motions that digest food, and also with bile which is obtained from
 the liver. Pancreatic juice from the pancreas chemically digests the food
 in the small intestine.
-
Pancreas.jpg
The pancreas creates two substances, pancreatic juice and hormones.
 Pancreatic juice is composed of enzymes and sodium bicarbonate. It
 is sent to the small intestine to help digest food. Hormones made by
 the pancreas include insulin and glucagon, which maintain blood sugar
 levels.
-
Pancreas.jpg
Pancreatic juice is composed of enzymes and sodium bicarbonate. It
 is sent to the small intestine. Enzymes help chemically break down food
 while sodium bicarbonate neutralizes the acid coming from the stomach to
 prevent burns or denaturing in the small intestine.
-
Pancreas.jpg
The pancreas produces the hormones insulin and glucagon. They are
 in charge of maintaining blood sugar levels in the body. Insulin is
 in charge of raising blood sugar levels when they get too low by causing
 the body to store more glucose in the form of glycogen and using more
 glucose.
-
large.jpg
The large intestine absorbs water from chyme(digested food mixed with mucus)
 from the small intestine to form feces. If the large intestine absorbs too much
 water, the feces is too hard and constipation occurs. On the other hand, if
 the large intestine absorbs too less water, the feces comes out as liquid
 Diarrhea.
-
liver.jpg
The liver produces bile, which is sent to the small intestine to mechanically
 digest lipids. Extra bile is then stored in the gallbladder, a small organ under
 the liver, to be distributed when needed.
-
larynx.jpeg
The larynx is part of the respiratory system. It is in charge of creating sound
 and allows you to speak or sing. When air passes through it, vocal cords in
 the larynx vibrate to create sound.
-
spleen.jpg
The spleen is an organ next to the stomach. It is part of the circulatory and immune
 systems and is shaped like a long tongue. It filters and recycles old blood cells for
 the body to use.
-
stomach.jpg
The stomach is part of the digestive system. It is connected to two sphincters, the
 lower esophageal and the pyloric sphincters. Chewed food enters the stomach from the
 Esophagus. Hydrochloric acid in the stomach creates an acidic environment,
 converting the enzyme pepsinogen to pepsin which digest proteins. The broken
 down food then goes through the pyloric sphincter to the small intestine.
-
epiglotis.jpg
The epiglottis is a thin flap of tissue that covers the entrance into your trachea from the
 mouth. Normally, when you eat, the epiglottis remains closed in order to block swallowed
 food from entering the trachea into the lungs. Food is then able to go down to the esophagus
 down to the stomach where it is supposed to be.
-
Kidney.jpg
The kidneys are part of both the circulatory and excretory systems. The function of the
 kidneys is to filter water and excess waste from blood in order to create urine. The clean
 Blood is then able to go back into the body while the waste, now urine, goes through the
 two ureters to the bladder.
-
trachea.jpg
The trachea connects the larynx to the bronchi in the lungs. It is covered by the epiglottis
 which blocks food from going in but opens to allow air through. The trachea is composed of
 cartilage, which is apparent in the rings of the structure of the trachea.
-
healthy_thyroid.jpg
The thyroid gland is right above the trachea. It secretes the hormone thyroxine that
 affects growth/development and regulates the rate of metabolism, or how quickly body
 uses energy. Other hormones it produces regulate breathing, heart rate, body temperature, etc.
-
testes.jpg
The testes are only present in male organisms. They descend into the scrotal sac
 shortly after birth and produces sperm and the hormone testosterone. The scrotal
 sac holds the testes to keep them at the right temperature to keep the sperm alive.
-
villi.jpeg
Villi are present on the insides of the small intestine to increase the rate of
 absorption of nutrients. Nutrients diffuse through the villi into the bloodstream.
 Sugars and amino acids diffuse to capillaries, while lipids diffuse to lacteals.
-
bladder_copy.jpg
The urinary bladder is part of the excretory system and collects and stores urine
 until it can be expelled from body. It is connected to two ureters from the kidneys
  which supply it with urine that is filtered.
-
gallbladder.jpg
The gallbladder is part of the digestive system. It stores excess bile made by the
 liver. When needed, it secretes the right amount of bile into the small intestine
 to help mechanically digest lipids.
-


